.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999
.\" The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that: (1) source code distributions
.\" retain the above copyright notice and this paragraph in its entirety, (2)
.\" distributions including binary code include the above copyright notice and
.\" this paragraph in its entirety in the documentation or other materials
.\" provided with the distribution, and (3) all advertising materials mentioning
.\" features or use of this software display the following acknowledgment:
.\" ``This product includes software developed by the University of California,
.\" Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and its contributors.'' Neither the name of
.\" the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse
.\" or promote products derived from this software without specific prior
.\" written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.TH DEVSERV 1 "10 Aug 1999"
.de HD
.sp 1.5
.B
..
.SH NAME
devserv \- a device controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B devserv 
[
.B \-d
.I debug_level 
]
[
.B \-s
n|N
]
[
.B \-t
.I time_to_live
]
[
.B \-v
.I video_address/video_port/video_ttl
]
[
.B \-h
.I video_host
]
[
.B \-m
S
]
[
.B \-f
.I file
]
[
.B \--version
]
[
.B \--help
]
.br
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I devserv 
is a server for controlling video devices.  The program is
meant to be used in conjunction with a client program such
as 
.I camclnt.  
.I devserv
listens on the network for requests from clients and carries 
out these requests to drive the devices connected to the host computer.  
The devices that are currently supported are the Sony EVI-D30, 
Canon VC-C1, and Canon VC-C3 cameras in conjunction with the Panasonic 
WJ-MX50 Digital A/V Mixer.
.I devserv
supports requests to pan, tilt, and zoom the cameras, select
the input source to the mixer/switcher and do picture-in-picture. 
Although intended for remote control of video devices,
.I devserv
can be used for local control (in case it is inconvenient
to use the hand-held remote controller unit).  
 
Requests are sent and received by UDP unicast.  
.I Devserv
multicasts description messages when a client explicitly requests 
them, when any client request has been processed, or if 7.5 minutes 
have elapsed since the last description message was sent.
Any client may send requests as long as they conform to the
"Camera Remote Control Command Language" (see COMMAND SET below).

.SH OPTIONS
.br
.br
.TP
.B \-d
Use 
.I debug_level
to specify what is displayed on the terminal.
0: nothing is displayed; 1: initialization
and termination status and error messages (if
any) are displayed; 2: network events are
displayed; 3: communication between the devices
and
.I devserv
is displayed; 4: everything at levels 1, 2,
and 3 is displayed. (The default level is 1.) 
.TP
.B \-s
Specify "n" or "N" to suppress turning off the
devices when the program is terminated. 
.br
.TP
.B \-t
Use 
.I time_to_live
to specify the time-to-live value for multicast messages.
The default is 1.  
.br
.TP
.B \-v
Use 
.I video_address/video_port/video_ttl
to specify the address, port, and ttl used by the video tool
for media transmission.  This information is included in the 
description or status messages. 
.br
.TP
.B \-h
Use 
.I video_host
to specify the machine that is the source of the video. 
The default is the localhost.  This information is
included in the description or status messages. 
.br
.TP
.B \-m
Specify "S" for simulation mode.  This turns off actual RS232
communication while behaving as though it were on.  This feature
may be useful for developing/testing other features or applications.
.br
.TP
.B \-f
Use 
.I file 
to specify the file in the home directory that is to be used as
the configuration file.  This file will be used instead of the default
filename $HOME/.devserv.config. 
.br
.TP
.B \--version
Use this option to get the version number and quit. 
.br
.TP
.B \--help
Use this option to get the synopsis and quit. 

.br
.SH OPERATION
Since the device controller is a server, it is intended 
to be run like a daemon.  To operate the program, launch
it from the command line.  To quit, type "control-C". Make 
sure that the main power switches of all attached devices are "on".  
On the Sony EVI-D30 and Panasonic WJ-MX50, the main power switches 
are on the back of the units. Also make sure that the camera control 
and pan and tilter units of the Canon VC-C3 camera are turned on.  
The Canon VC-C1, Sony EVI-D30, and Panasonic WJ-MX50 allow the 
power to be turned on and off via remote control (i.e., the power 
buttons on the front of these devices can be controlled by the 
device server).  However, the Canon VC-C3 does not have
this capability.  Therefore,
.I devserv
turns on the power for the Sony EVI-D30, Canon VC-C1, and 
Panasonic Wj-MX 50 at startup (as long as the main power is 
manually turned on) and turns off the power when you quit the 
program (unless the -s option is used).

.I devserv
reads a file at startup to determine the hardware configuration.  
This file can also be used to specify video information and set 
network addresses if you wish to override the default values.  
(See CONFIGURATION FILE and NETWORK COMMUNICATION below.)  

.HD
.I HARDWARE CONFIGURATION
.LP
Since the current version of 
.I devserv
(v1.0) supports RS232 devices, the RS232 cables for
the cameras and video switcher must be connected to serial 
ports (e.g., port A and/or B on a SPARCstation and COM1 
through COM4 on a PC). Sony EVI-D30 cameras can be daisy-chained    
with up to 7 cameras per port.  Refer to the user manuals for the
specific devices for connections and configuration.  Note that
Panasonic WJ-MX50 has an "RS422/RS232C Selection Switch" above
the "Editing Control Connector" on its back panel.  Set the 
selection switch to "RS232C."  You must also set the SW701
switch to meet modem requirements.  This is described in the
Operating Instructions Manual for the Panasonic WJ-MX50.

.HD
.I CONFIGURATION FILE 
.LP
This file is stored in the home directory as $HOME/.devserv.config.
It specifies the hardware configuration, network parameters, and 
video information.  Entries are in the form:  
.br
	keyword value ...
.br
	      or
.br
	keyword label value ...
.br

If a value contains any spaces, it must be enclosed in double
quotes.

.br  
The hardware configuration includes the type of devices and what
ports they are connected to, client "handles" for referring to devices, 
and internal device addresses. The serial ports are listed by their full
pathnames, e.g., for solaris, use /dev/ttyx (where x = a,b,
corresponds to ports A and B, respectively); for freeBSD, 
use /dev/ttydx (where x = 0,1,..., corresponds to COM1, COM2,
etc., respectively); for Irix, use /dev/ttymx (where x = 0,1,2,...).

Each device entry is in the form:
.br
.br
.br
     device <make> <model> <device_addr> <type> <unit no.> \
.br  
	<port>  <lens_type>
.br
.br
.br

The device address given by <device_addr> is used for internal
device addressing.  The devices must be numbered 1, 2, 3, etc., in 
order from the closest to the computer to the farthest away.  
.br
NOTE: 
For the Sony EVI-D30, the address number is NOT the number on the 
back of the unit. The camera numbers 1, 2, and 3 on the back of the 
camera are for use with the hand-held remote commander unit.  Also,
the address number is INDEPENDENT of the <unit no.>.

The type of lens (standard or wide-angle) on a camera is given
by the <lens-type> field.  If left blank, the default (standard)
is used. If a wide-angle lens is used, specify "w" or "W".  

Since the client program will refer to the devices by the
"handle" assigned by the device controller and this handle 
consists of the "type" and "unit no.", you must list these
values.  Sample entries for a SUN workstation are:

.br
.br
.br
     device Sony EVI-D30 1 camera 2 /dev/ttya
.br  device Sony EVI-D30 2 camera 1 /dev/ttya
.br  device Panasonic WJ-MX50 1 videoswitch 1 /dev/ttyb

.br
.br
.br
                    or

.br
.br  
.br
     device Sony EVI-D30 1 camera 1 /dev/ttya
.br  device Sony EVI-D30 2 camera 2 /dev/ttya
.br  device Canon VC-C3 1 camera 3 /dev/ttyb w  
.br
.br
.br

A sample entry for freeBSD where a Canon VC-C3 camera
is attached to COM2 would be:

.br
.br
.br
     device Canon VC-C3 1 camera 3 /dev/ttyd1 w 
.br
.br
.br

You may use "cam" for "camera" and "vid" for
"videoswitch".  The client handles in the above
entries would be: "cam 1", "cam 2", "cam 3", and
"vid 1".  

The video information is optional and includes the
address, port, and time-to-live used by the video tool
for media transmission, the host that is the source of the 
video feed, and a text description. Sample entries are:
.br
	video 224.1.2.3/12345/16
.br
	video_host thismachine.domain.com 
.br
	text "Main Conference Room, Building XXX"
.br

Any line that begins with "#" is treated as a comment.

The network parameters are described below.


.I NETWORK COMMUNICATION 
.LP
The device controller uses UDP to receive unicast client
requests. The default UDP port is 5555. IP multicast is 
used by the device controller to send status or description 
messages.  The default multicast address and port are 224.35.36.37 
and 5556.  To override any or all of these values, make entries in   
the $HOME/.devserv.config file.  Entries must be in the following 
format:
.br
.br
.br

     address udpPort <port>
.br  address multicastAddress <address>
.br  address multicastPort <port>
.br
.br
.br

Example entries are:
.br
.br
.br
     address udpPort 8885
.br  address multicastAddress 224.1.2.3
.br  address multicastPort 1234 
.br
.br
.br

The standard socket interface is used for this communication.

Users may write their own client programs. They can use
the standard socket interface for network communication
between the clients and the device controller or they 
may use the common communication library developed under
the "Collaboratory Interoperability Framework" project
(CIF).  (See http://www-itg.lbl.gov/CIF).  To accommodate
clients that utilize the CIF communication library, 
.I devserv
also listens on a CIF UDP port to receive unicast client
requests and transmits status and description messages
via a CIF multicast channel.  The default values for
these communication channels are:  udp port = 7775,
multicast address =  224.35.36.37, multicast port = 7776.
To override these values, make entries in the $HOME/.devserv.config
file in the following format:
.br
.br
.br
    address cifUDPPort <port>
.br address cifUUMAddress <multicast address>
.br address cifUUMPort <multicast port>
.br
.br
.br

.I COMMAND SET 
.LP
The device controller communicates with the client using 
ASCII text messages.  While the camclnt program is now
available (from http://www-itg.lbl.gov/mbone/devserv),
new clients may be written.  In order to communicate with 
.I devserv,
messages must follow the format given by the "Camera
Remote Control Command Language", which is available
at http://www-itg.lbl.gov/mbone/devserv.    

NOTE:  A timestamp is given in each request.  If the
timestamp is less than that of the previously accepted 
command, the command is ignored (unless it is a request
for a description).

.SH BUGS 
.I devserv 
may not accurately report whether a device is available
or not when there are hardware failures during execution.
Multicast messages are currently incomplete (e.g., the
Camera Remote Control Command Language specifies that
description messages contain a reference to the last
command accepted and this has not yet been implemented). 

.SH AUTHORS
Marcia Perry (MPerry@lbl.gov), Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 
Berkeley, CA
.br
Deb Agarwal (DAAgarwal@lbl.gov), University of California, Berkeley
and Lawrence National Berkeley Laboratory, Berkeley, CA
